---
title:       "TCP/IP"

description: " "
date:        2019-01-26T10:21:00+01:00
author:      "Max"
published:   true

tags:        ["cs"]
---

TCP stands for Transmission Control Protocol. TCP software transmits data between machines using segments, which are also called TCP packets. The main characteristic of TCP is that it is a reliable protocol, which means that it makes sure that a packet was delivered without needing any extra code from the programmer. If there is no proof of a packet delivery, TCP resends that particular packet. Among other things, a TCP packet can be used for establishing connections, transferring data, sending acknowledgements, and closing connections.

When a TCP connection is established between two machines, a full duplex virtual circuit, similar to the telephone call, is created between those two machines. The two machines constantly communicate to make sure that data are sent and received correctly. If the connection fails for some reason, the two machines try to find the problem and report to the relevant application.

IP stands for Internet Protocol. The main characteristic of IP is that it is not a reliable protocol by nature. IP encapsulates the data that travels over a TCP/IP network because it is responsible for delivering packets from the source host to the destination host according to the IP addresses. IP has to find an addressing method to send the packet to its destination effectively. Although there are dedicated devices called routers that perform IP routing, every TCP/IP device has to perform some basic routing.

The UDP (User Datagram Protocol) protocol is based on IP, which means that it is also unreliable. Generally speaking, the UDP protocol is simpler than the TCP protocol mainly because UDP is not reliable by design. As a result, UDP messages can be lost, duplicated, or arrive out of order. Furthermore, packets can arrive faster than the recipient can process them. So, UDP is used when speed is more important than reliability.
